README.md, before:

# Thunder ORC ⚡

**Multi-Agent Development Orchestration Framework**

Thunder ORC is a sophisticated multi-agent orchestration system that transforms complex software development projects into manageable, automated, and scalable processes through intelligent agent coordination and Git worktree isolation.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc)

## 🌟 Features

- **🎯 Multi-Agent Architecture**: Orchestrator, Project Managers, and Engineers working in harmony
- **🔄 Automated Workflows**: One-command setup for complete feature teams
- **🌳 Git Worktree Isolation**: Parallel development without conflicts
- **💬 Inter-Agent Communication**: Structured messaging system between agents
- **📊 Progress Tracking**: Automated check-ins and status updates
- **🚀 Production Ready**: Built-in testing, quality assurance, and deployment patterns
- **⚙️ Highly Configurable**: YAML-based feature specifications
- **🔒 Safe Operations**: Multiple validation steps and user confirmations

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
User → ORC (Orchestrator) → PM (Project Manager) → ENG (Engineer)
                    ↓
            Feature Delivery
```

### Agent Roles

- **🎯 ORC (Orchestrator)**: Strategic coordinator managing multiple Project Managers
- **👔 PM (Project Manager)**: Feature-specific management for individual features
- **🔧 ENG (Engineer)**: Technical implementation specialists for specific features

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **tmux**: Terminal multiplexer for session management
- **Git**: Version control with worktree support
- **Claude CLI**: AI assistant for agent coordination
- **Bash**: Shell scripting support

#### Custom tmux directory management that should be in your configuration
```bash
# Split pane also opens to current directory (easier to get to home than back to where you are)
bind c new-window -c "#{pane_current_path}"
bind '"' split-window -c "#{pane_current_path}"
bind % split-window -h -c "#{pane_current_path}"
```

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc.git
   cd thunder-orc
   ```

2. **Make scripts executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x .claude/scripts/*.sh
   ```

3. **Initialize your session**:
   ```bash
   tmux new-session -s your-project -n "ORC"
   cd /path/to/thunder-orc
   claude --dangerously-skip-permissions
   ```

4. **Brief the Orchestrator**:
   ```bash
   /brief-orchestrator
   ```

### Your First Feature

1. **Create a feature file** (`features/my-feature.md`):
   ```yaml
   ---
   feature_name: "my-awesome-feature"
   feature_code: "AWESOME"
   feature_port: 3001
   feature_branch: "feature/my-awesome-feature"
   dependencies: []
   environment:
     API_URL: "http://localhost:3000"
   ---
   
   # My Awesome Feature
   [Feature requirements and specifications...]
   ```

2. **Setup the feature team**:
   ```bash
   .claude/scripts/setup-agents-for-feature.sh AWESOME features/my-feature.md
   ```

3. **Watch the magic happen!** 🎉

## 📁 Project Structure

```
thunder-orc/
├── .claude/
│   ├── commands/              # Agent briefing slash commands
│   │   ├── brief-orchestrator.md
│   │   ├── brief-project-manager.md
│   │   └── brief-engineer.md
│   ├── scripts/               # Automation scripts
│   │   ├── setup-agents-for-feature.sh
│   │   ├── send-message.sh
│   │   ├── schedule-reminder.sh
│   │   └── cleanup-feature.sh
│   └── sample-feature.md      # Comprehensive feature example
├── .worktrees/                # Isolated development environments
│   ├── feature-a/            # Feature A worktree
│   └── feature-b/            # Feature B worktree
├── features/                  # Feature specifications
│   ├── auth.md               # Authentication system
│   └── hello-world.md        # Hello World example
├── CLAUDE.md                 # Project instructions for Claude
├── SYSTEM-OVERVIEW.md        # Detailed system architecture
├── README.md                 # This file
└── .gitignore               # Git ignore patterns
```

## 🎯 Core Scripts

### 🚀 Setup Feature Team
```bash
.claude/scripts/setup-agents-for-feature.sh <FEATURE_CODE> <FEATURE_FILE>
```
- Creates Git worktree for isolated development
- Sets up PM and Engineer agents with proper briefings
- Establishes feature branch and environment

### 💬 Send Message
```bash
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh <WINDOW_NAME> <MESSAGE>
```
- Facilitates communication between agents
- Handles proper timing and message formatting
- Maintains session context automatically

### ⏰ Schedule Reminder
```bash
.claude/scripts/schedule-reminder.sh <AGENT_TYPE> <INTERVAL_MINUTES>
```
- Sets up periodic self-reminders for agents
- Encourages proactive communication
- Maintains project momentum

### 🧹 Cleanup Feature
```bash
.claude/scripts/cleanup-feature.sh <FEATURE_CODE> [FEATURE_FILE]
```
- **Only run when explicitly requested**
- Removes tmux windows and worktree assets
- Preserves branches by default for user review

## 📝 Feature File Format

Every feature must include YAML frontmatter with required fields:

```yaml
---
feature_name: "my-feature"      # REQUIRED: Directory name for worktree
feature_code: "FEAT"            # REQUIRED: Uppercase code for agent windows
feature_port: 3001              # REQUIRED: Unique port for development
feature_branch: "feature/my-feature"  # REQUIRED: Git branch name
dependencies: ["AUTH"]          # REQUIRED: Array of feature dependencies
environment:                    # OPTIONAL: Feature-specific env vars
  API_URL: "http://localhost:3000"
  DB_NAME: "my_feature_db"
---

# Feature Specification
[Detailed requirements, API endpoints, database schema, etc.]
```

## 🔄 Inter-Agent Communication

All agents communicate via the send-message script - **never directly in chat**:

```bash
# PM to Engineer
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh ENG-FEAT "Status update request"

# Engineer to PM
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh PM-FEAT "Status: Completed X, working on Y"

# PM to Orchestrator
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh ORC "Feature FEAT ready for review"
```

## 🌊 Development Workflow

### Starting a New Feature
1. **Orchestrator**: Create feature file with specifications
2. **Orchestrator**: Run setup script to create PM and Engineer team
3. **PM**: Review specifications and contact Engineer
4. **Engineer**: Set up development environment and begin implementation
5. **All**: Regular progress updates and coordination

### Daily Development
1. **PM**: Proactive check-ins with Engineer every 30 minutes
2. **Engineer**: Respond via send-message script with concrete status
3. **Engineer**: Create development windows as needed
4. **PM**: Monitor application for errors and quality
5. **ORC**: Coordinate between PMs and manage dependencies

### Feature Completion
1. **Engineer**: Complete implementation and notify PM
2. **PM**: Review deliverables against specification
3. **PM**: Report completion to Orchestrator
4. **ORC**: Verify production readiness
5. **ORC**: Report completion with branch information
6. **ORC**: Cleanup only when explicitly requested

## 🎨 Example Features

### 🔐 Authentication System
- **Port**: 3000
- **Tech**: Node.js, PostgreSQL, JWT
- **Features**: Registration, login, password reset, user management

### 🌍 Hello World App
- **Port**: 4100
- **Tech**: Next.js 14, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Features**: Homepage, about page, responsive design

### 📊 Dashboard (Sample)
- **Port**: 3100
- **Tech**: Next.js 14, TypeScript, Tailwind, Testing suite
- **Features**: Data visualization, real-time updates, comprehensive testing

## 🔧 Configuration

### Agent Briefings
- **`/brief-orchestrator`**: Strategic PM management guidance
- **`/brief-project-manager FEAT features/feat.md`**: Feature-specific PM briefing
- **`/brief-engineer FEAT features/feat.md`**: Technical implementation guidance

### Window Management
- **`ORC`**: Orchestrator window (main directory)
- **`PM-{FEATURE_CODE}`**: Project Manager window (feature worktree)
- **`ENG-{FEATURE_CODE}`**: Engineer window (feature worktree)
- **`ENG-{FEATURE_CODE}-APP`**: Application server window

## 🚨 Best Practices

### ✅ Do
- Always use YAML frontmatter in feature files
- Communicate via send-message script
- Set up regular check-ins with reminders
- Preserve branches for user review
- Test thoroughly before completion
- Follow feature specifications exactly

### ❌ Don't
- Respond directly in chat (use send-message script)
- Skip required YAML frontmatter fields
- Cleanup features without user permission
- Work outside of assigned worktrees
- Ignore PM check-ins or requests

## 🛡️ Safety Features

- **Multiple validation steps** before destructive operations
- **User confirmation required** for cleanup operations
- **Isolated development environments** prevent conflicts
- **Structured communication** prevents miscommunication
- **Progress tracking** ensures accountability

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Follow the existing code style
4. Test your changes thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/issues)
- **Documentation**: [Wiki](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/wiki)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/discussions)

## 🎉 Acknowledgments

- Built for the Claude AI ecosystem
- Inspired by modern DevOps practices
- Designed for scalable team collaboration

---

**Thunder ORC** - *Orchestrating Development, One Feature at a Time* ⚡

*Transform your complex multi-feature development into a manageable, automated, and scalable process.*

Commit message:

Add proper attribution to Tmux-Orchestrator as primary inspiration
- Credit @Jedward23's Tmux-Orchestrator as the foundational inspiration
- Acknowledge the revolutionary concepts of autonomous AI agent coordination
- Highlight the three-tier architecture that Thunder ORC builds upon
- Include the Alan Kay quote from the original project
- Maintain professional attribution standards

README.md, after:

# Thunder ORC ⚡

**Multi-Agent Development Orchestration Framework**

Thunder ORC is a sophisticated multi-agent orchestration system that transforms complex software development projects into manageable, automated, and scalable processes through intelligent agent coordination and Git worktree isolation.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc)

## 🌟 Features

- **🎯 Multi-Agent Architecture**: Orchestrator, Project Managers, and Engineers working in harmony
- **🔄 Automated Workflows**: One-command setup for complete feature teams
- **🌳 Git Worktree Isolation**: Parallel development without conflicts
- **💬 Inter-Agent Communication**: Structured messaging system between agents
- **📊 Progress Tracking**: Automated check-ins and status updates
- **🚀 Production Ready**: Built-in testing, quality assurance, and deployment patterns
- **⚙️ Highly Configurable**: YAML-based feature specifications
- **🔒 Safe Operations**: Multiple validation steps and user confirmations

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
User → ORC (Orchestrator) → PM (Project Manager) → ENG (Engineer)
                    ↓
            Feature Delivery
```

### Agent Roles

- **🎯 ORC (Orchestrator)**: Strategic coordinator managing multiple Project Managers
- **👔 PM (Project Manager)**: Feature-specific management for individual features
- **🔧 ENG (Engineer)**: Technical implementation specialists for specific features

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **tmux**: Terminal multiplexer for session management
- **Git**: Version control with worktree support
- **Claude CLI**: AI assistant for agent coordination
- **Bash**: Shell scripting support

#### Custom tmux directory management that should be in your configuration
```bash
# Split pane also opens to current directory (easier to get to home than back to where you are)
bind c new-window -c "#{pane_current_path}"
bind '"' split-window -c "#{pane_current_path}"
bind % split-window -h -c "#{pane_current_path}"
```

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc.git
   cd thunder-orc
   ```

2. **Make scripts executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x .claude/scripts/*.sh
   ```

3. **Initialize your session**:
   ```bash
   tmux new-session -s your-project -n "ORC"
   cd /path/to/thunder-orc
   claude --dangerously-skip-permissions
   ```

4. **Brief the Orchestrator**:
   ```bash
   /brief-orchestrator
   ```

### Your First Feature

1. **Create a feature file** (`features/my-feature.md`):
   ```yaml
   ---
   feature_name: "my-awesome-feature"
   feature_code: "AWESOME"
   feature_port: 3001
   feature_branch: "feature/my-awesome-feature"
   dependencies: []
   environment:
     API_URL: "http://localhost:3000"
   ---
   
   # My Awesome Feature
   [Feature requirements and specifications...]
   ```

2. **Setup the feature team**:
   ```bash
   .claude/scripts/setup-agents-for-feature.sh AWESOME features/my-feature.md
   ```

3. **Watch the magic happen!** 🎉

## 📁 Project Structure

```
thunder-orc/
├── .claude/
│   ├── commands/              # Agent briefing slash commands
│   │   ├── brief-orchestrator.md
│   │   ├── brief-project-manager.md
│   │   └── brief-engineer.md
│   ├── scripts/               # Automation scripts
│   │   ├── setup-agents-for-feature.sh
│   │   ├── send-message.sh
│   │   ├── schedule-reminder.sh
│   │   └── cleanup-feature.sh
│   └── sample-feature.md      # Comprehensive feature example
├── .worktrees/                # Isolated development environments
│   ├── feature-a/            # Feature A worktree
│   └── feature-b/            # Feature B worktree
├── features/                  # Feature specifications
│   ├── auth.md               # Authentication system
│   └── hello-world.md        # Hello World example
├── CLAUDE.md                 # Project instructions for Claude
├── SYSTEM-OVERVIEW.md        # Detailed system architecture
├── README.md                 # This file
└── .gitignore               # Git ignore patterns
```

## 🎯 Core Scripts

### 🚀 Setup Feature Team
```bash
.claude/scripts/setup-agents-for-feature.sh <FEATURE_CODE> <FEATURE_FILE>
```
- Creates Git worktree for isolated development
- Sets up PM and Engineer agents with proper briefings
- Establishes feature branch and environment

### 💬 Send Message
```bash
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh <WINDOW_NAME> <MESSAGE>
```
- Facilitates communication between agents
- Handles proper timing and message formatting
- Maintains session context automatically

### ⏰ Schedule Reminder
```bash
.claude/scripts/schedule-reminder.sh <AGENT_TYPE> <INTERVAL_MINUTES>
```
- Sets up periodic self-reminders for agents
- Encourages proactive communication
- Maintains project momentum

### 🧹 Cleanup Feature
```bash
.claude/scripts/cleanup-feature.sh <FEATURE_CODE> [FEATURE_FILE]
```
- **Only run when explicitly requested**
- Removes tmux windows and worktree assets
- Preserves branches by default for user review

## 📝 Feature File Format

Every feature must include YAML frontmatter with required fields:

```yaml
---
feature_name: "my-feature"      # REQUIRED: Directory name for worktree
feature_code: "FEAT"            # REQUIRED: Uppercase code for agent windows
feature_port: 3001              # REQUIRED: Unique port for development
feature_branch: "feature/my-feature"  # REQUIRED: Git branch name
dependencies: ["AUTH"]          # REQUIRED: Array of feature dependencies
environment:                    # OPTIONAL: Feature-specific env vars
  API_URL: "http://localhost:3000"
  DB_NAME: "my_feature_db"
---

# Feature Specification
[Detailed requirements, API endpoints, database schema, etc.]
```

## 🔄 Inter-Agent Communication

All agents communicate via the send-message script - **never directly in chat**:

```bash
# PM to Engineer
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh ENG-FEAT "Status update request"

# Engineer to PM
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh PM-FEAT "Status: Completed X, working on Y"

# PM to Orchestrator
.claude/scripts/send-message.sh ORC "Feature FEAT ready for review"
```

## 🌊 Development Workflow

### Starting a New Feature
1. **Orchestrator**: Create feature file with specifications
2. **Orchestrator**: Run setup script to create PM and Engineer team
3. **PM**: Review specifications and contact Engineer
4. **Engineer**: Set up development environment and begin implementation
5. **All**: Regular progress updates and coordination

### Daily Development
1. **PM**: Proactive check-ins with Engineer every 30 minutes
2. **Engineer**: Respond via send-message script with concrete status
3. **Engineer**: Create development windows as needed
4. **PM**: Monitor application for errors and quality
5. **ORC**: Coordinate between PMs and manage dependencies

### Feature Completion
1. **Engineer**: Complete implementation and notify PM
2. **PM**: Review deliverables against specification
3. **PM**: Report completion to Orchestrator
4. **ORC**: Verify production readiness
5. **ORC**: Report completion with branch information
6. **ORC**: Cleanup only when explicitly requested

## 🎨 Example Features

### 🔐 Authentication System
- **Port**: 3000
- **Tech**: Node.js, PostgreSQL, JWT
- **Features**: Registration, login, password reset, user management

### 🌍 Hello World App
- **Port**: 4100
- **Tech**: Next.js 14, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Features**: Homepage, about page, responsive design

### 📊 Dashboard (Sample)
- **Port**: 3100
- **Tech**: Next.js 14, TypeScript, Tailwind, Testing suite
- **Features**: Data visualization, real-time updates, comprehensive testing

## 🔧 Configuration

### Agent Briefings
- **`/brief-orchestrator`**: Strategic PM management guidance
- **`/brief-project-manager FEAT features/feat.md`**: Feature-specific PM briefing
- **`/brief-engineer FEAT features/feat.md`**: Technical implementation guidance

### Window Management
- **`ORC`**: Orchestrator window (main directory)
- **`PM-{FEATURE_CODE}`**: Project Manager window (feature worktree)
- **`ENG-{FEATURE_CODE}`**: Engineer window (feature worktree)
- **`ENG-{FEATURE_CODE}-APP`**: Application server window

## 🚨 Best Practices

### ✅ Do
- Always use YAML frontmatter in feature files
- Communicate via send-message script
- Set up regular check-ins with reminders
- Preserve branches for user review
- Test thoroughly before completion
- Follow feature specifications exactly

### ❌ Don't
- Respond directly in chat (use send-message script)
- Skip required YAML frontmatter fields
- Cleanup features without user permission
- Work outside of assigned worktrees
- Ignore PM check-ins or requests

## 🛡️ Safety Features

- **Multiple validation steps** before destructive operations
- **User confirmation required** for cleanup operations
- **Isolated development environments** prevent conflicts
- **Structured communication** prevents miscommunication
- **Progress tracking** ensures accountability

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Follow the existing code style
4. Test your changes thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/issues)
- **Documentation**: [Wiki](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/wiki)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/thunderorc/thunder-orc/discussions)

## 🎉 Acknowledgments

### 🌟 Primary Inspiration
**[Tmux-Orchestrator](https://github.com/Jedward23/Tmux-Orchestrator)** by [@Jedward23](https://github.com/Jedward23)

Thunder ORC was directly inspired by the groundbreaking Tmux-Orchestrator project, which introduced the revolutionary concept of autonomous AI agent coordination that can "run AI agents 24/7 while you sleep." The original project's innovative three-tier architecture (Orchestrator → Project Manager → Engineer) provided the foundational framework that Thunder ORC builds upon.

Key concepts adapted from Tmux-Orchestrator:
- **Multi-tier AI agent hierarchy** for overcoming context window limitations
- **Autonomous coordination** between AI agents using tmux sessions
- **Self-scheduling agents** with automated check-ins and progress tracking
- **Cross-project communication** and knowledge sharing architecture

> *"The tools we build today will program themselves tomorrow"* - Alan Kay, 1971 (quoted in Tmux-Orchestrator)

### 🚀 Additional Credits
- Built for the Claude AI ecosystem
- Enhanced with Git worktree isolation patterns
- Designed for modern DevOps scalability
- Community-driven development approach

---

**Thunder ORC** - *Orchestrating Development, One Feature at a Time* ⚡

*Transform your complex multi-feature development into a manageable, automated, and scalable process.*
